Number of posts in RSS feeds :30
 title: Time to run: Late rather than early exercise training in mice remodels the gut microbiome and reduces atherosclerosis development," abstract: The metabolic and inflammatory processes that are implicated in the development of cardiovascular diseases are under control of the biological clock. While skeletal muscle function exhibits circadian rhythms, it is unclear to what extent the beneficial health effects of exercise are restricted to unique time windows. We aimed to study whether the timing of exercise training differentially modulates the development of atherosclerosis and elucidate underlying mechanisms. We endurance-trained atherosclerosis-prone female APOE*3-Leiden.CETP mice fed a Western-type diet, a well-established human-like model for cardiometabolic diseases, for one hour five times a week for four weeks either in their early or in their late active phase on a treadmill. We monitored metabolic parameters, the development of atherosclerotic lesions in the aortic root and assessed the composition of the gut microbiota. Late, but not early, exercise training reduced fat mass by 19% and the size of early-stage atherosclerotic lesions by as much as 29% compared to sedentary animals. No correlation between cholesterol exposure and lesion size was evident, as no differences in plasma lipid levels were observed, but circulating levels of the pro-inflammatory markers ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 were reduced with late exercise. Strikingly, we observed a time-of-day-dependent effect of exercise training on the composition of the gut microbiota as only late training increased the abundance of gut bacteria producing short-chain fatty acids with proposed anti-inflammatory properties. Together, these findings indicate that timing is a critical factor to the beneficial anti-atherosclerotic effects of exercise with a great potential to further optimize training recommendations for patients."
 title: Environmental microbes promote phenotypic plasticity in Drosophila reproduction and sleep behavior," abstract: The microbiome has been hypothesized as a driving force of phenotypic variation in host organisms that is capable of extending metabolic processes, altering development, and in some cases, conferring novel functions that are critical for survival (1-5). Only a few studies have directly shown a causal role for the environmental microbiome in altering host phenotypic features. To directly assess the extent to which environmental microbes induce variation in host life history traits and behavior, we inoculated axenic Drosophila with microbes isolated from two different field sites and generated two populations with distinct bacterial and fungal profiles. We show that microbes isolated from environmental sites with modest abiotic differences induce large variation in host reproduction, fatty acid levels, stress tolerance, and sleep behavior. Importantly, clearing microbes from each experimental population removed the phenotypic differences. The results support the causal role of environmental microbes as drivers of host phenotypic variation and potentially, rapid adaptation and evolution."
 title: Monitoring the intestinal magnetic field with optically pumped atomic magnetometers," abstract: Research has shown the potential of magnetoenterography (MENG) for detecting intestinal diseases noninvasively by superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs). Nevertheless, these devices need to operate under a cytogenetic environment maintained by liquid helium. In this paper, we record the intestinal magnetic field of a rabbit with optically pumped magnetometers (OPMs) at room temperature. It demonstrates that the OPM-based system has sufficient sensitivity to measure the intestinal magnetic fields of the rabbit, and can be potentially developed into a cost-effective and flexible MENG system."
 title: Binding and sequestration of poison frog alkaloids by a plasma globulin," abstract: Alkaloids are important bioactive molecules throughout the natural world, and in many animals they serve as a source of chemical defense against predation. Dendrobatid poison frogs bioaccumulate alkaloids from their diet to make themselves toxic or unpalatable to predators. Despite the proposed roles of plasma proteins as mediators of alkaloid trafficking and bioavailability, the responsible proteins have not been identified. We use chemical approaches to show that a [~]50 kDa plasma protein is the principal alkaloid binding molecule in blood from poison frogs. Proteomic and biochemical studies establish this plasma protein to be liver-derived alkaloid-binding globulin (ABG) that is a member of the serine-protease inhibitor (serpin) family. In addition to alkaloid binding activity, ABG sequesters and regulates the bioavailability of ""free"" plasma alkaloids in vitro. Unexpectedly, ABG is not related to saxiphilin or albumin, but instead exhibits sequence and structural homology to mammalian hormone carriers and amphibian biliverdin binding proteins. Alkaloid-binding globulin (ABG) represents a new small molecule binding functionality in serpin proteins, a novel mechanism of plasma alkaloid transport in poison frogs, and more broadly points towards serpins acting as tunable scaffolds for small molecule binding and transport across different organisms."
 title: MMP2 loss leads to defective parturition and severe dystocia in mice," abstract: Parturition is the final step of mammalian reproduction and an essential process for the species survival. During pregnancy, the uterus is maintained quiescence which is important for fetal growth and development. However, at term, fundamental changes in myometrial contractility are initiated for efficient expulsion of the fetus. These changes involve tissue remodeling that requires changes in the extracellular matrix (ECM). The gelatinases subgroup of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), has only two members: MMP2 and MMP9, which are both known to participate in uterine ECM remodeling throughout the estrus cycle as well as during pregnancy, parturition and postpartum involution. Yet, no knowledge exists regarding their loss-of-function impact on the uterus. Here we investigated the effect of MMP2 and/or MMP9 genetic loss on parturition process. Single and double knockout (dKO) mice for MMP2 and/or MMP9 were used. We found high percentages of dystocia in mmp2-/-, mmp2-/-mmp9+/- and dKO females, but not in mmp9-/- females. Histological analysis of nulliparous uterine tissue of WT, mmp2-/-, mmp9-/- and dKO, at 8 weeks, 4 months and 8-9.5 months, revealed that the uterine tissue of mmp2-/- presents alterations in tissue size and structure, mainly when reaching to 8-9.5 months of age, including enlarged total tissue, myometrium, endometrium and luminal cavity. Additionally, Massons Trichrome staining suggested a mechanism of extensive fibrosis in mmp2-/- myometrium, which may lead to dystocia. Altogether, our research highlights a novel cause for dystocia pathology mediated by loss of MMP2 activity in uterine tissue during mammalian parturition."
 title: Maresin 1 Repletion Improves Muscle Regeneration After Volumetric Muscle Loss," abstract: The acute traumatic or surgical loss of skeletal muscle, known as volumetric muscle loss (VML), is a devastating type of injury that results in exacerbated and persistent inflammation followed by fibrosis. The mechanisms that mediate the magnitude and duration of the inflammatory response and ensuing fibrosis after VML remain understudied and as such, the development of regenerative therapies has been limited. To address this need, we profiled how lipid mediators, which are potent regulators of the immune response after injury, varied with VML injuries that heal or result in fibrosis. We observed that non-healing VML injuries displayed increased pro-inflammatory eicosanoids and a lack of pro-resolving lipid mediators. Treatment of VML with a pro-resolving lipid mediator synthesized from docosahexaenoic acid, called Maresin 1, ameliorated fibrosis through reduction of neutrophils and macrophages and improved myogenesis, leading to enhanced recovery of muscle strength. These results expand our knowledge of the dysregulated immune response that develops after VML and identify a novel immuno-regenerative therapeutic modality in Maresin 1."
 title: Canagliglozin extends life span and leads to less weight gain in C57BL6 male mice," abstract: SGLT2 inhibitors are widely prescribed drugs for type 2 diabetes and heart failure. It seems that their beneficial health effects are multifaceted and not only limited to the amelioration of glycemic profile. It is suggested that SGLT2 inhibitors-induced glycosuria causes a metabolic shift that mimics the fasting response. It is also known that calorie restriction leads to enhanced longevity in mice. Thus, we hypothesized that long-term treatment of mice with SGLT2 inhibitors might extend their life span. To this end male C57BL6 mice at the age of 4 months were put on a normal chow diet or on a diet supplemented with 200 mg/kg canagliflozin. The canagliflozin-treated mice showed lower body weight gain over time and increased life span. The median survival of control mice was 107.5 weeks, while that of the canagliflozin-treated group was 112.5 weeks (p=0.011). No difference was seen in the presence or severity of cataracts. This study showed for the first time an enhanced median survival of canagliflozin-treated male mice with a homogeneous genetic background (C57BL6). Further analyses are in progress to elucidate the metabolic adaptations and mechanisms underlying this effect."
 title: Interactive effects of venlafaxine and thermal stress on zebrafish (Danio rerio) inflammatory and heat shock responses," abstract: Venlafaxine (VFX), a commonly prescribed antidepressant often detected in wastewater effluent, and acute temperature elevations from climate change and increased urbanization, are two environmental stressors currently placing freshwater ecosystems at risk. This study focused on understanding if exposure to VFX impacts the agitation temperature (Tag) and critical thermal maximum (CTmax) of zebrafish (Danio rerio). Additionally, we examined the interactive effects of VFX and acute thermal stress on zebrafish heat shock and inflammatory immune responses. A 96 hour 1.0 g/L VFX exposure experiment was conducted, followed by assessment of thermal tolerance via CTmax challenge. Heat shock proteins and pro-inflammatory immune cytokines were quantified through gene expression analysis by quantitative PCR (qPCR) on hsp 70, hsp 90, hsp 47, il-8, tnf, and il-1{beta} within gill and liver tissue. No significant changes in agitation temperature between control and exposed fish were observed, nor were there any differences in CTmax based on treatment. Unsurprisingly, hsp 47, 70, and 90 were all upregulated in groups exposed solely to CTmax, while only hsp 47 within gill tissue showed signs of interactive effects, which was significantly decreased in fish exposed to both VFX and CTmax. No induction of an inflammatory response occurred. This study demonstrated that environmentally relevant concentrations of VFX have no impact on thermal tolerance performance in zebrafish. However, VFX is capable of causing diminished function of protective heat shock mechanisms, which could be detrimental to freshwater fish populations and aquatic ecosystems as temperature spikes become more frequent from climate change and urbanization near watersheds.

Summary StatementThis study predicts the effects that climate change and anthropogenic pollutants may have on fish ability to tolerate elevated temperatures, and examines the physiologic challenges these stressors may introduce."
 title: Oral bioavailability and metabolism of hydroxytyrosol from food supplements," abstract: Table olives and olive oils are the main dietary sources of hydroxytyrosol (HT), a natural antioxidant compound that has emerged as a potential aid in protection against cardiovascular risk. Bioavailability studies with olive oils showed that HT is bioavailable from its free form and from conjugated forms like oleuropein and its aglycone. Still, its low dietary intake, poor bioavailability, and high inter-individual variability after absorption through the gastrointestinal tract hamper its full benefits.

In a randomized, controlled, blind, cross-over study, we investigated the impact of HT metabolism and bioavailability by comparing two olive-derived watery supplements containing different doses of HT (30.58 and 61.48 mg of HT/dosage, respectively); additionally, HT-fortified olive oil was used in the control group. To this aim, plasma and urine samples were evaluated in 12 healthy volunteers following the intake of a single dose of the supplements or fortified olive oil. Blood and urine samples were collected at baseline and at 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 4, and 12 hours after intake. HT and its metabolites were analyzed by UHPLC-DAD-MS/MS.

Pharmacokinetic results showed that dietary HT administered through the food supplements is bioavailable and biovailability increases with the administered dose. After intake, homovanillic acid, HT-3-O-sulfate, and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid are the main metabolites found both in plasma and urine. The maximum concentrations in plasma peaked 30 minutes after intake.

Being the bioavailability of a compound a fundamental prerequisite for its effect, these results promise a good potential of both food supplements for the protection against oxidative stress and the consequent cardiovascular risk."
 title: Embryonic signals mediate extracellular vesicle biogenesis and trafficking at the embryo-maternal interface," abstract: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are membrane-coated nanoparticles secreted by almost all cell types in living organisms. EVs, as paracrine mediators, are involved in intercellular communication, immune response, and several reproductive events, including the maintenance of pregnancy. Using a domestic animal model (Sus scrofa) with an epitheliochorial, superficial type of placentation, we focused on EV biogenesis pathway at the embryo-maternal interface, when the embryonic signaling occurs for maternal recognition and the maintenance of pregnancy. Transmission electron microscopy was used during early pregnancy to visualize different populations of EVs and apocrine and/or merocrine pathways of secretion. Immunofluorescent staining localized proteins responsible for EV biogenesis and cell polarization at the embryo-maternal interface. The expression profiles of genes involved in biogenesis and the secretion of EVs pointed at the possible modulation of endometrial expression by embryonic signals. Further in vitro studies showed that factors of embryonic origin can regulate the expression of the ESCRT-II complex and EV trafficking in luminal epithelial cells. Moreover, miRNA-mediated rapid negative regulation of gene expression was abolished by delivered embryonic signals. Our findings demonstrated that embryonic signals are potent modulators of EV-mediated secretory activity of the endometrium during the critical stages of early pregnancy."
 title: A study on packed cell volume for deducing hemoglobin: Cholistani camels in perspective," abstract: In human medical practice, a hematological rule of three has been validated for healthy human populations. One such formula is estimating hemoglobin (Hb) levels as 1/3rd of Packed Cell Volume (PCV). However, no such hematological formulae have been devised and validated for veterinary medical practice. The present study was devised with an aim to evaluate the relationship between hemoglobin (Hb) concentration and Packed Cell Volume (PCV) in camels (n=215) being reared under pastoralism, and to devise a simple pen-side hematological formula for estimation of Hb from PCV. The PCV was determined through microhematocrit method whereas Hb estimation by cyanmethaemoglobin method (HbD). The Hb was also calculated as 1/3rd of PCV and was dubbed as calculated Hb (HbC). Overall HbD and HbC were significantly (P[&ge;]0.05) different. Similar results were attained for all study groups i.e. males (n=94) and females (n=121), and young (n=85) and adult (n=130) camels. The corrected Hb (CHb) was deduced through regression prediction equation attained from linear regression model. Scatter-plots were drawn, linear regression was carried out, and Bland Altman chart was built for agreement of both methods of Hb estimation. A non-significant (P[&ge;]0.05) difference was noticed between HbD and CHb. Bland Altman chart revealed good agreement between HbD and CHb and there was no proportional bias on the distribution of data around the mean difference line (Mean= 0.1436, 95% CI= 3.00, -2.72). We accordingly recommend a simplified pen-side hematological formula for deducing Hb concentration from PCV viz. Hb concentration (g/dL)= 0.18(PCV)+5.4 for all age and gender groups of camels instead of its calculation as one-third of PCV."
 title: An evolutionarily conserved olfactory receptor is required for sex differences in blood pressure," abstract: Sex differences in blood pressure are well-established, with premenopausal women having lower blood pressure than men by [~]10mmHg; however, the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. We report here that olfactory receptor 558 (Olfr558), which has not previously been studied in non-olfactory tissues, localizes to vascular smooth muscle cells in numerous tissues including the kidney and heart. In the kidney, Olfr558 colocalizes with renin (a hormone that plays a key role in blood pressure regulation) in the renal afferent arteriole. Based on the localization of Olfr558, we hypothesized that Olfr558 plays a role in blood pressure regulation. We find that sex differences in blood pressure are intact in Olfr558 wildtype (WT) mice, but, are absent in Olfr558 knockout (KO) mice. We find that male KO mice have lowered diastolic blood pressure, decreased renin expression and activity, and altered vascular reactivity. Female KO mice exhibit increased blood pressure and increased pulse wave velocity, indicating increased vascular stiffness. The human ortholog of Olfr558, OR51E1, was previously identified as a locus associated with diastolic blood pressure. We report here that a rare OR51E1 missense variant has a statistically significant sex interaction effect with diastolic blood pressure, increasing diastolic blood pressure in women but decreasing it in men. In addition, we characterize how two different clinically relevant OR51E1 variants influence OR51E1 signaling in vitro. In sum, our findings demonstrate an evolutionarily conserved role for Olfr558/OR51E1 to mediate sex differences in blood pressure by altering renin, vascular reactivity, and arterial stiffness."
 title: Analysis of IGHA1 and other salivary proteins post half marathon in female participants," abstract: High intensity exercise, such as in marathons and triathlons, suppresses transient local and systemic immunity. Much is known about the systemic immunosuppression response, but little is known about its local response in the oral cavity, lungs, bronchial tubes, and skin. The oral cavity is an entrance for bacteria or viruses to enter the body. Saliva covers the epidermis of the oral cavity and plays an important role in the local stress response by preventing infection. In this study, we examined the properties of saliva secreted during the local stress response induced by a half marathon (HM) using quantitative proteomic analysis. We identified kallikrein 1 (KLK1), immunoglobulin kappa chain (IgK), and cystatin S (CST4) as suppression factors, as well as immunoglobulin heavy constant alpha 1 (IGHA1), which has been reported as an immunological stress marker. KLK1 (p < 0.05), IGK (p < 0.05), and CST4 (p < 0.05) were suppressed 2 h post-HM compared to pre-HM, and KLK1 (p < 0.05) and CST4 (p < 0.01) were suppressed 4 h post-HM. There was also a positive correlation between IGHA1, IGK, and CST4 2 and 4 h post-HM. In addition, KLK1 and IGK after 2 h post-HM showed a positive correlation. Our study demonstrated that the salivary proteome is regulated and antimicrobial proteins are suppressed post-HM. These results suggest that oral immunity was transiently suppressed post-HM. The positive correlation of each protein at 2 and 4 h post-HM suggests that the suppressed state was similarly regulated up to 4 h after a HM. The proteins identified in this study may have applications as stress markers for recreational runners and individuals who perform high- and moderate-intensity exercises in their daily lives."
 title: The tissue-specific autophagic response to nutrient deprivation," abstract: Macroautophagy is a highly adaptable degradative system that is essential for life. Although studies have shown the importance of this pathway across all organ systems, we have little understanding of how discrete tissues might employ autophagy and how this changes during stress. Using an approach to identify quantitatively autophagic cargoes, we sought to identify how cells from the adult liver and brain rely on autophagy under basal conditions and during nutrient deprivation. We find that in addition to the turnover of cell type specific proteins, the different organs relied on autophagy differentially for the turnover of organelles such as mitochondria, peroxisomes and ER. Moreover, in response to nutrient deprivation, although both tissues showed increased cargo capture, cell type- and tissue-specific patterns emerged. Most notably in the brain, we found an increased representation of glial and endothelial cell cargoes, whereas neuronal cargoes were relatively unchanged. In liver, we unexpectedly found a decreased representation of mitochondrial proteins, which represented a shift moving away from the whole mitochondrion turnover to piecemeal. These results indicate how the physiologic context of the different cell types significantly influence autophagy-dependence, and begins to shed insight into how the term  autophagy dysfunction might be thought of when considering different disease states."
 title: An anisotropic network model of inter-cellular coupling for robust simulation of cardiac electrical excitation in structurally complex and heterogeneous large tissue models," abstract: Inter-cellular electrical coupling in the heart is a major determinant of excitation patterns in health and disease. Cardiac arrhythmias, in particular rapid arrhythmias such as tachycardia and fibrillation, are characterised by spatially complex and heterogeneous conduction patterns. In disease conditions, these complex excitation patterns may result from electrophysiological and structural remodelling, for example, remodelling of inter-cellular gap junctions and/or the proliferation of fibrosis. Evaluation of the precise mechanisms by which local tissue structure determines global arrhythmic excitation patterns is a major challenge, yet may be critically important for the development of effective treatment strategies. Computational modelling is a viable tool to address this challenge, but the established approaches for organ-scale simulations are unsuitable to capture the impact of local conduction heterogeneities. In this study, we present a novel network model of inter-cellular coupling for anisotropic organ-scale simulation of electrical dynamics that enables cellular connections to be heterogeneously interrupted.

The presented approach is both simple and powerful. Intercellular coupling strength is weighted based on local myocyte orientation and can be easily modified by sampling from continuous distributions and/or removing individual cellular connections entirely; both approaches can be differentially applied to axial and transverse cellular connections for full control over the conduction substrate.

Preliminary simulations demonstrate the value of such an approach and indicate that perturbing cellular connections in this manner can facilitate lower global conduction velocities and capture wave breakdown and the development of re-entry in a way that is not possible with the previously established approaches. Therefore, we have presented a useful model to simulate the impact of local conduction heterogeneity in organ-scale models that expands the scope and possibilities for computational models to elucidate arrhythmia mechanisms and generate genuine subject-specificity, which may be particularly relevant in disease conditions."
" title: Toxin-mediated downregulation of absorptive ion transporters NHE3, DRA, and SGLT1 in the colon contributes to diarrhea associated with Clostridioides difficile infection."," abstract: Background & AimClostridioides difficile infection (CDI) is the leading cause of hospital-acquired diarrhea and pseudomembranous colitis. Two protein toxins, TcdA and TcdB, produced by C. difficile are the major determinants of disease. However, the physiological cause of diarrhea associated with CDI is not well understood. We investigated the effects of CDI on paracellular permeability and apical ion transporters.

MethodsWe studied intestinal permeability and apical membrane transporters in female C57BL/6J mice. Ussing chambers were used to measure regional differences in paracellular permeability and ion transporter function in intestinal mucosa. Intestinal tissues were collected from mice and analyzed by immunofluorescence microscopy and RNA-sequencing.

ResultsCDI increased intestinal permeability through the size-selective leak pathway in vivo, but permeability was not increased at the sites of pathological damage. Chloride secretion was reduced in the cecum during infection by decreased CaCC function. Infected mice had decreased SGLT1 (also called SLC5A1) activity in the cecum and colon along with diminished apical abundance and an increase in luminal glucose. SGLT1 and DRA (also called SLC26A3) expression was ablated by either TcdA or TcdB, but NHE3 (also called SLC9A3) was decreased in a TcdB-dependent manner. Finally, expression of these three ion transporters was drastically reduced at the transcriptional level.

ConclusionsCDI increases intestinal permeability and decreases apical abundance of NHE3, SGLT1, and DRA. This combination may cause a dysfunction in water and solute absorption in the lower gastrointestinal tract, leading to osmotic diarrhea. These findings may open novel pathways for attenuating CDI-associated diarrhea.

GRAPHICAL ABSTRACT

O_FIG O_LINKSMALLFIG WIDTH=185 HEIGHT=200 SRC=""FIGDIR/small/516162v1_ufig1.gif"" ALT=""Figure 1"">
View larger version (69K):
org.highwire.dtl.DTLVardef@a8d6a1org.highwire.dtl.DTLVardef@a30116org.highwire.dtl.DTLVardef@19c76c3org.highwire.dtl.DTLVardef@1390957_HPS_FORMAT_FIGEXP  M_FIG C_FIG"
 title: Mimicking seasonal changes in light-dark cycle and ambient temperature modulates gut microbiome in mice under the same dietary regimen," abstract: To better adapt to seasonal environmental changes, physiological processes and behaviors are regulated seasonally. The gut microbiome interacts with the physiology, behavior, and even the diseases of host animals, including humans and livestock. Seasonal changes in gut microbiome composition have been reported in several species under natural environments. Dietary content significantly affects the composition of the microbiome, and, in the natural environment, the diet varies between different seasons. Therefore, understanding the seasonal regulatory mechanisms of the gut microbiome is important for understanding the seasonal adaptation strategies of animals. Herein, we examined the effects of changing day length and temperature, which mimic summer and winter conditions, on the gut microbiome of laboratory mice. Principal coordinate analysis and analysis of the composition of microbiomes of 16S rRNA sequencing data demonstrated that the microbiomes of the cecum and large intestine showed significant differences between summer and winter mimicking conditions. Similar to previous studies, a daily rhythm was observed in the composition of the microbiome. Furthermore, the phylogenetic investigation of communities by reconstruction of unobserved states predicted seasonal changes in several metabolic pathways. Changing day length and temperature can affect the composition of the gut microbiome without changing dietary contents."
" title: Thermal acclimation in a non-migratory songbird occurs via changes to thermogenic capacity, but not conductance"," abstract: Thermoregulatory performance can be modified through changes in various subordinate traits, including thermal conductance, basal and summit metabolic rates, and body composition. We investigated physiological differences between black-capped chickadees (Poecile atricapillus) acclimated for six weeks to cold (-5{degrees}C) or control (25{degrees}C) environments (n = 7 per treatment) by measuring traits that affect thermal balance. We made repeated measurements of basal and summit metabolic rates via flow-through respirometry and body composition using quantitative magnetic resonance of live birds. At the end of the acclimation, we measured thermal conductance of the combined feathers and skins. Cold-acclimated birds had a higher summit metabolic rate, reflecting a greater capacity for endogenous heat generation, and an increased lean mass. However, birds did not alter their thermal conductance. These results suggest that, while birds can use multiple mechanisms to acclimate to their thermal environment, they use a subset of potential changes over varying timescales."
 title: Melanocortin 1 receptor regulates cholesterol and bile acid metabolism in the liver," abstract: Melanocortin 1 receptor (MC1-R) is widely expressed in melanocytes and leukocytes, and is thus strongly implicated in the regulation of skin pigmentation and inflammation. MC1-R mRNA has also been found in the rat and human liver, but its functional role has remained elusive. We hypothesized that MC1-R is functionally active in the liver and involved in the regulation of cholesterol and bile acid metabolism. We generated hepatocyte-specific MC1-R knock-out (L-Mc1r-/-) mice and phenotyped the mouse model for lipid profiles, liver histology and bile acid levels. L-Mc1r-/- mice had significantly increased liver weight, which was accompanied by elevated levels of total cholesterol and triglycerides in the liver as well as in the plasma. These mice demonstrated also enhanced liver fibrosis and a disturbance in bile acid metabolism as evidenced by markedly reduced bile acid levels in the plasma and feces. Mechanistically, using HepG2 cells as an in vitro model, we found that selective activation of MC1-R in HepG2 cells reduced cellular cholesterol content and enhanced uptake of low- and high-density lipoprotein particles via a cAMP-independent mechanism. In conclusion, the present results demonstrate that MC1-R signaling in hepatocytes regulates cholesterol and bile acid metabolism and its deficiency leads to hypercholesterolemia and enhanced lipid accumulation and fibrosis in the liver."
 title: dATP Elevation Induces Myocardial Metabolic Remodeling to Support Improved Cardiac Function," abstract: Hallmark features of systolic heart failure are reduced contractility and impaired metabolic flexibility of the myocardium. Cardiomyocytes (CMs) with elevated deoxy ATP (dATP) via overexpression of ribonucleotide reductase (RNR) enzyme robustly improve contractility. However, the effect of dATP elevation on cardiac metabolism is unknown. Here, we developed proteolysis-resistant versions of RNR and demonstrate that elevation of dATP/ATP to ~1% in CMs in a transgenic mouse (TgRRB) resulted in robust improvement of cardiac function. Pharmacological approaches showed that CMs with elevated dATP have greater basal respiratory rates by shifting myosin states to more active forms, independent of its isoform, in relaxed CMs. Targeted metabolomic profiling revealed a significant reprogramming towards oxidative phosphorylation in TgRRB-CMs. Higher cristae density and activity in the mitochondria of TgRRB-CMs improved respiratory capacity. Our results revealed a critical property of dATP to modulate myosin states to enhance contractility and induce metabolic flexibility to support improved function in CMs.

HighlightsO_LIUbiquitylation-resistant variant RRB in a transgenic mice model (TgRRB) elevates dATP level up to 1% (of the total ATP pool) in the heart and improves function.
C_LIO_LITgRRB-CMs show greater basal oxygen consumption due to changes in myosin state by dATP.
C_LIO_LITgRRB-CMs respond to elevated function with a metabolic shift, such that there are higher pools of oxidative metabolites, with elevated OXPHOS, FAO, and energy reserve.
C_LIO_LILong-term mitochondrial remodeling may occur to accommodate for the higher energy demands of the high functioning TgRRB-CMs.
C_LI

Graphical abstract

O_FIG O_LINKSMALLFIG WIDTH=200 HEIGHT=134 SRC=""FIGDIR/small/515235v1_ufig1.gif"" ALT=""Figure 1"">
View larger version (33K):
org.highwire.dtl.DTLVardef@a570e0org.highwire.dtl.DTLVardef@195bcedorg.highwire.dtl.DTLVardef@1a6925forg.highwire.dtl.DTLVardef@d3c5e0_HPS_FORMAT_FIGEXP  M_FIG C_FIG"
 title: C-low threshold mechanoreceptor activation becomes sufficient to trigger affective pain in spinal cord-injured mice in association with increased respiratory rates," abstract: The mechanisms of neuropathic pain after spinal cord injury (SCI) are not fully understood. In addition to the plasticity that occurs within the injured spinal cord, peripheral processes, such as hyperactivity of primary nociceptors, are critical to the expression of pain after SCI. In adult rats, truncal stimulation within the tuning range of C-low threshold mechanoreceptors (C-LTMRs) contributes to pain hypersensitivity and elevates respiratory rates (RRs) after SCI. This suggests that C-LTMRs, which normally encode pleasant, affiliative touch, undergo plasticity to transmit pain sensation following injury. Because tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression is a specific marker of C-LTMRs, in the periphery, here we used Th-Cre adult mice to investigate more specifically the involvement of C-LTMRs in at-level pain after thoracic contusion SCI. Using a modified light-dark chamber conditioned place aversion (CPA) paradigm, we assessed chamber preferences and transitions between chambers at baseline, and in response to mechanical and optogenetic stimulation of C-LTMRs. In parallel, at baseline and select post-surgical timepoints, mice underwent non-contact RR recordings and von Frey assessment of mechanical hypersensitivity. The results showed that SCI mice avoided the chamber associated with C-LTMR stimulation, an effect that was more pronounced with optical stimulation. They also displayed elevated RRs at rest and during CPA training sessions. Importantly, these changes were restricted to chronic post-surgery timepoints, when hindpaw mechanical hypersensitivity was also evident. Together, these results suggest that C-LTMR afferent plasticity, coexisting with a potentially facilitatory state of sympathetic activation, drives at-level affective pain following SCI in adult mice.

Contribution to the field statementPreclinical studies have only recently sought to understand biological mechanisms connecting peripheral afferent neuron hypersensitivity to pain. Using mechanical brush and selective optogenetic activation in transgenic mice, this study investigated the role of an implicated subpopulation of sensory afferents, the C-low threshold mechanoreceptors (C-LTMRs), that may be transformed from pleasurable touch- to pain-encoding neurons after spinal cord injury (SCI). C-LTMR activation after SCI evoked at-level conditioned pain responses associated with sympathetic activation (increased respiratory rates). These studies provide a foundation for research into the peripheral afferent mechanisms of pain that is expected to translate into new options for pain control in humans."
 title: Eccentric cycling involves greater mental demand and cortical activation of the frontoparietal network," abstract: Eccentric, compared to concentric muscle contraction, is thought to be attributed to different strategies of neuro-motor processing and a higher level of mental demand. This study aimed to evaluate the mental demand and related-cortical activation patterns to eccentric and concentric cycling at matched perceived effort and torque. Nineteen healthy men (30{+/-}6 yrs) performed four different 5-min cycling exercise conditions on a semi-recumbent isokinetic cycle ergometer: 1) concentric at a moderate perceived effort (23 on the CR100(R) scale) without torque feedback; 2) concentric and 3) eccentric at the same average torque produced in the first condition; and 4) eccentric at the same moderate perceived effort than the first concentric condition. The order of conditions 2-4 was randomised. After each condition, mental demand was monitored using the NASA-TLX scale. Changes in oxy- (O2Hb) and deoxy- (HHb) haemoglobin during cycling exercise were measured over the two prefrontal cortices and the right parietal lobe from a 15-probe layout using a continuous-wave NIRS system. Mental demand was significantly higher when performing eccentric compared to concentric cycling (p = .012) and when the intensity was fixed by the torque rather than the perceived effort (p < .001). For both torque- or perceived effort-matched exercises, O2Hb was significantly greater (p < .001) in both prefrontal cortices and right parietal lobe, and HHb decreased in the left and right prefrontal cortices during eccentric compared to concentric cycling. The current study supports that acute eccentric cycling involves a higher mental demand and frontoparietal network activation compared to concentric cycling."
 title: Enteric Glial Cell Network Function is Required for Epithelial Barrier Restitution following Intestinal Ischemic Injury in the Early Postnatal Period," abstract: Ischemic damage to the intestinal epithelial barrier, such as in necrotizing enterocolitis or small intestinal volvulus, is associated with higher mortality rates in younger patients. We have recently reported a powerful pig model to investigate these age-dependent outcomes in which mucosal barrier restitution is strikingly absent in neonates but can be rescued by direct application of homogenized mucosa from older, juvenile pigs by a yet-undefined mechanism. Within the mucosa, a postnatally developing network of enteric glial cells (EGC) is gaining recognition as a key regulator of the mucosal barrier. Therefore, we hypothesized that the developing EGC network may play an important role in coordinating intestinal barrier repair in neonates. Neonatal and juvenile jejunal mucosa recovering from surgically induced intestinal ischemia was visualized by scanning electron microscopy and the transcriptomic phenotypes were assessed by bulk RNA sequencing. EGC network density and gliosis were examined by gene set enrichment analysis, three-dimensional volume imaging and western blot and its function in regulating epithelial restitution assessed ex vivo in Ussing chamber using the glia-specific inhibitor fluoroacetate, and in vivo by co-culture assay. Here we refine and elaborate our translational model, confirming a neonatal phenotype characterized by a complete lack of coordinated reparative signaling in the mucosal microenvironment. Further, we report important evidence that the subepithelial EGC network changes significantly over the early postnatal period and demonstrate that EGC function in close proximity to wounded intestinal epithelium is critical to intestinal barrier restitution following ischemic injury.

NEW & NOTEWORTHYThis study refines a powerful translational pig model, defining an age-dependent relationship between enteric glia and the intestinal epithelium during intestinal ischemic injury and confirming an important role of the enteric glial cell activity in driving mucosal barrier restitution. This study suggests that targeting the enteric glial network could lead to novel interventions to improve recovery from intestinal injury in neonatal patients."
 title: Glucocorticoid involvement in reproductive biology," abstract: Oestrogen and progesterone play essential roles in the release of mature oocytes, the priming and cycling of the uterine lining, and the maintenance of mammalian pregnancy. Progesterone is synthesized de novo at the embryo implantation site in the mouse, during decidualization of the endometrium. During early stages of pregnancy, the locally produced progesterone is thought to act as an immunosuppressant, preventing rejection of the fetal allograft at the fetal-maternal interface. However, both uterine natural killer cells and dendritic cells express glucocorticoid receptor rather than progesterone receptor. The importance of glucocorticoids in early pregnancy is inferred from the presence of steroid receptors and the 11{beta}-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase enzymes, which modulate corticosterone action in the decidua, the trophoblast, the placenta, and the fetus. 11{beta}-hydroxylase is the last enzyme in the metabolism of cholesterol to corticosterone and, in a mouse model of 11{beta}-hydroxylase deficiency, complications of reproduction suggested its requirement for normal ovulation and uterine cell turnover. We present evidence that, in this model, folliculogenesis occurs normally but ovulation is inhibited, and abnormal uterine cell turnover ultimately leads to adenomyosis. Ovaries respond to a superovulation protocol by releasing oocytes and forming corpora lutea, and homozygous null blastocysts are capable of implantation, but the pregnancy is not maintained. We show that glucocorticoid is produced locally at the implantation site in control animals, revealing wide involvement of glucocorticoids in reproductive biology."
 title: Metabolic clearance rate modeling: A translational approach to quantifying cerebral metabolism using hyperpolarized pyruvate.," abstract: Hyperpolarized carbon-13 MRI is a promising technique for in vivo metabolic interrogation of alterations between health and disease. This study introduces a model-free formalism for quantifying the metabolic information in hyperpolarized imaging.

This study investigated a novel model-free perfusion and metabolic clearance rate (MCR) model in pre-clinical stroke and in the healthy human brain.

Simulations showed that the proposed model was robust to perturbations in T1, transmit B1, and kPL. A significant difference in ipsilateral vs contralateral pyruvate derived cerebral blood flow (CBF) was detected in rats (140 {+/-} 2 vs 89 {+/-} 6 mL/100g/min, p < 0.01, respectively) and pigs (139 {+/-} 12 vs 95 {+/-} 5 mL/100g/min, p = 0.04, respectively), along with an increase in fractional metabolism (26 {+/-} 5 vs 4 {+/-} 2 %, p < 0.01, respectively) in the rodent brain. In addition, a significant increase in ipsilateral vs contralateral MCR (0.034 {+/-} 0.007 vs 0.017 {+/-} 0.02 s-1, p = 0.03, respectively) and a decrease in mean transit time (MTT) (31 {+/-} 8 vs 60 {+/-} 2, p = 0.04, respectively) was observed in the porcine brain. In conclusion, MCR mapping is a simple and robust approach to the post-processing of hyperpolarized magnetic resonance imaging."
 title: Phosphatidylethanolamine facilitates mitochondrial pyruvate entry to regulate metabolic flexibility," abstract: Carbohydrates and lipids provide the majority of substrates to fuel mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS). Metabolic inflexibility, defined as an impaired ability to switch between these fuels, is implicated in a number of metabolic diseases. Here we explore the mechanism by which physical inactivity promotes metabolic inflexibility in skeletal muscle. We developed a mouse model of sedentariness by small mouse cage (SMC) that, unlike other classic models of disuse in mice, faithfully recapitulates metabolic responses that occur in humans. Bioenergetic phenotyping of mitochondria displayed metabolic inflexibility induced by physical inactivity, demonstrated by a reduction in pyruvate-stimulated respiration (JO2) in absence of a change in palmitate-stimulated JO2. Pyruvate resistance in these mitochondria was likely driven by a decrease in phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) abundance in the mitochondrial membrane. Reduction in mitochondrial PE by deletion of phosphatidylserine decarboxylase (PSD) was sufficient to induce metabolic inflexibility measured at the whole-body level, as well as at the level of skeletal muscle mitochondria. Low mitochondrial PE was sufficient to increase glucose flux towards lactate. We further implicate that resistance to pyruvate metabolism is due to attenuated mitochondrial entry via mitochondrial pyruvate carrier (MPC). These findings suggest a novel mechanism by which mitochondrial PE directly regulates MPC activity to modulate metabolic flexibility."
 title: Reduced acetylation of TFAM promotes bioenergetic dysfunction in the failing heart," abstract: General Control of Amino-Acid Synthesis 5-like 1 (GCN5L1) was previously identified as a key regulator of protein lysine acetylation in mitochondria. Subsequent studies demonstrated that GCN5L1 regulates the acetylation status and activity of mitochondrial fuel substrate metabolism enzymes. However, the role of GCN5L1 in response to chronic hemodynamic stress is largely unknown. Here, we show that cardiomyocyte-specific GCN5L1 knockout mice (cGCN5L1 KO) display exacerbated pressure overload-induced heart failure progression following transaortic constriction (TAC). Mitochondrial DNA and mitochondrial electron transport chain protein levels were decreased in cGCN5L1 KO hearts after TAC, and isolated neonatal cardiomyocytes with reduced GCN5L1 expression had lower bioenergetic output in response to hypertrophic stress. Loss of GCN5L1 expression led to a decrease in the acetylation status of mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM) after TAC in vivo, which was linked to a reduction in mtDNA levels in vitro. Together, these data suggest that GCN5L1 may protect from hemodynamic stress by maintaining mitochondrial bioenergetic output.

HighlightsO_LIReduced GCN5L1 expression in the failing heart promotes contractile dysfunction
C_LIO_LIMitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) levels are reduced in cardiomyocyte-specific GCN5L1 knockout mice following hemodynamic stress
C_LIO_LIGCN5L1 knockdown reduces, and GCN5L1 overexpression increases, bioenergetic output in hypertrophic cardiomyocytes
C_LIO_LIGCN5L1-mediated acetylation of TFAM promotes increased mtDNA levels
C_LI"
 title: The Transcription Factor Foxi1 Promotes Expression of V-ATPase and Gpr116 in M-1 cells," abstract: The diverse functions of each nephron segment rely on the coordinated action of specialized cell populations that are uniquely defined by their transcriptional profile. In the collecting duct, there are two critical and distinct cell populations: principal cells and intercalated cells. Principal cells play key roles in the regulation of water, Na+, and K+, while intercalated cells are best known for their role in acid-base homeostasis. Currently, there are no in vitro systems that recapitulate the heterogeneity of the collecting ducts, which limits high-throughput and replicate investigations of genetic and physiological phenomena. Here, we have demonstrated that the transcription factor Foxi1 is sufficient to alter the transcriptional identity of M-1 cells, a murine cortical collecting duct cell line. Specifically, overexpression of Foxi1 induces the expression of intercalated cell transcripts including Gpr116, Atp6v1b1, Atp6v1g3, Atp6v0d2, Slc4a9, and Slc26a4. These data indicate that overexpression of Foxi1 differentiates M-1 cells towards a B-type intercalated cell phenotype and may provide a novel in vitro tool to study transcriptional regulation and physiological function of the renal collecting duct."
 title: Akt activator SC79 stimulates antibacterial nitric oxide production from human nasal epithelial cells and increases macrophage phagocytosis in vitro," abstract: The role of the Akt serine/threonine kinase family in airway innate immunity is relatively unstudied compared with other pathways. Akt can phosphorylate and activate the endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) isoform expressed in airway epithelial cell ciliated cells. NO production by nasal epithelial cells often has antibacterial and antiviral effects. Increasing nasal epithelial NO production may be a useful anti-pathogen strategy for respiratory infections in diseases like chronic rhinosinusitis. We hypothesized that a small molecule Akt activator, SC79, might induce nasal epithelial cell NO production with bactericidal effects. We tested this in primary nasal epithelial cells isolated from residual surgical material and grown at air-liquid interface. Live cell imaging of an NO-sensitive fluorescent dye revealed that SC79 induced dose-dependent NO production. Pharmacology and gene knockdown revealed that this NO production is dependent on eNOS and Akt. The NO produced was released into the airway surface liquid and was sufficient to kill both lab and clinical strains of P. aeruginosa in a co-culture bacterial killing assay. Finally, because macrophages use NO signaling to enhance phagocytosis, we tested effects of SC79 in human monocyte-derived macrophages. SC79 enhanced bacterial phagocytosis in a NO-dependent and Akt-dependent manner. No overt toxicity (LDH release) or inflammatory effects (IL8 transcription) were observed in nasal cells or macrophages over 24 hrs. Together, these data suggest that multiple innate immune pathways might be stimulated by SC79 delivered via topical nasal rinse or spray. Activating Akt using SC79 or another compound might have beneficial antipathogen effects in respiratory infections."
" title: Calcium and Bicarbonate Signaling Pathways have Pivotal, Resonating Roles in Matching ATP Production to Demand"," abstract: Mitochondrial ATP production in cardiac ventricular myocytes must be continually adjusted to rapidly replenish the ATP consumed by the working heart. Two systems are known to be critical in this regulation: mitochondrial matrix Ca2+ ([Ca2+]m) and blood flow that is tuned by local ventricular myocyte metabolic signaling. However, these two regulatory systems do not account for the large physiological range of ATP consumption observed. We report here on the identity, location, and signaling cascade of a controversial third regulatory system -- CO2/bicarbonate. CO2 is generated in the mitochondrial matrix as a metabolic waste product produced by oxidation of nutrients which power the production of ATP. It is a lipid soluble gas that equilibrates with bicarbonate (HCO3-) in aqueous solutions. The bicarbonate level is tracked by a bicarbonate-activated adenylyl cyclase, soluble adenylyl cyclase (sAC). Using structural Airyscan super-resolution imaging and functional measurements we find that sAC is primarily inside the mitochondria of ventricular myocytes where it generates cAMP when activated by HCO3-. This cAMP signaling cascade is shown to operate inside the mitochondrial inter-membrane space (IMS) by activating local EPAC1 (Exchange Protein directly Activated by cAMP) which turns on Rap1 (Ras-related protein 1). Thus, mitochondrial ATP production is shown to be increased by bicarbonate-triggered sAC signaling through Rap1. Additional evidence is presented indicating that the cAMP signaling itself does not occur directly in the matrix. We also show that this third signaling process involving bicarbonate and sAC activates the cardiac mitochondrial ATP production machinery by working independently of, yet in conjunction with, [Ca2+]m-dependent ATP production to meet the energy needs of cellular activity in both health and disease. Thus, the resonant, or complementary effects of bicarbonate and [Ca2+]m signaling arms tune mitochondrial ATP production to match the full scale of energy consumption in cardiac ventricular myocytes."
